---
layout: post
title:  "Smol URL shortener"
date:   2017-10-03 02:38
categories: Projects
---
Tiny URL shortener to learn more about databases and back-end development

**Project**: [smol.link URL shortener](http://www.smol.link/)

**User story**: I am able to input a link and be provided a compact link that will redirect me to the original one

This has been a great project, I enjoy back-end development a lot because it is much more technical.

Let's start the analysis then:
The first order of business was starting a good environment to develop in. Virtualenv for python was great with this, it creates a 'dummy' directory that acts like a standalone installation of python to help you keep dependencies clean and ordered.

Flask was a breeze, so easy to work with and their documentation was fantastic. I wrote up a dummy app first, their Flaskr tutorial was awesome and quickly adapted it to suit my needs.

So far so good, everything works and first test is successful. Obviously it took more than this but it was fairly basic development up to this point. Create a database, connect my python program to it and reroute URLs with a POST and GET method to encode a URL into the database and spit out a reference URL. Easy right?

A few problems:
What happens when people use an abnormal URL? Well the reroute would not work and the website would give a 404 error. Simple temporary fix was to to see if the link provided had either `http://` or `https://` as part of its string.

Thankfully flask takes care of SOME attacks through user input but just to be sure there can be nothing done to my database I base64 encode all input and then decode it when returning a URL.

Further issues: I need to make sure that the system cannot be bloated, I will most likely keep a rudimentary cookie when a user receives a URL and limit a user to maybe 5 links a minute, something to think about.

I also want to prevent repetition in the database by locating duplicates, simple but might be performance hogging at some point in database size. Another thing to think about.

This has given me a lot to think about and taught me even more, I want to start development on the wallpaper sharing website now!