---
layout: post
title:  "StandUP extension"
date:   2017-09-06 19:00
categories: Projects
---
Creating a simple and minimalistic browser extension to remind users to stand up from their desk

**Project**: StandUP browser extensions

**User story**: I am reminded to take a break from work by a notification every x minutes with a custom message

StandUP was a personal project but as with anything if _you_ want something chances are _other_ people would enjoy it too! So I set out to make a very simple and minimalistic Chrome extension to remind myself, and possibly others, to take a short break from their work.

The NHS website has a good article on this topic: [Why we should sit less](http://www.nhs.uk/Livewell/fitness/Pages/sitting-and-sedentary-behaviour-are-bad-for-your-health.aspx)

The first part of research was how chrome extensions use [background javascript files](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/background_pages). I put together a quick first draft of the extension, which spewed out notifications at a set interval of 45 minutes.

The next course of action was to create a simple options page, which at first would open a new tab but I noticed later that chrome has the option to create a pop-up that activates when the user clicks on your extension icon which made things a whole lot easier.

There were a few bugs: I did not clear up the notification timer properly one the first few versions which would cause a new instance to be made every time the user saved a new setting, this would cause multiple notifications to show up at different times.
Another bug was caused when the user was in a full screen application, the notification would not show up but it would not be cleared up either so when the user returned to the browser multiple notifications would cover the screen at once.

Both of these bugs were quickly fixed with a few lines of code to ensure the notification interval was cleared after every notification and started again.

I will continue working on this and hopefully make it even better than it is.