---
layout: post
title:  "HTML Fun"
categories: Projects
---
HTML is weird. 

We use it but honestly most of the magic
comes from it being paired with CSS but that does not mean
that HTML cannot be all the funk and pizzaz that CSS on its own.
Lets have a look at two _fun_ elements:

## Ruby Element  
  
The `<ruby>` element is, perhaps, the most confusing element in HTML depending on your background.
If you come from an asian heritage you might be familiar with [ruby notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_character).
To put it simply: Some languages use the help of characters above a symbol for various reasons,
to add meaning or maybe help the user pronounce a word they might be unfamiliar with.
Think editors note.

The ruby tag is simple enough to use  

```html
<ruby>
    My word <rt>My help</rt>
</ruby>
```  

This would simply display as:
<ruby>
    My word <rt>My help</rt>
</ruby>  


Nifty, eh?
Actually, not really for english speakers but its a very nice feature for the chinese and japanese
html writers amongst us.

## Word Break Opportunity Element
Thats a mouth full, a `<wbr>` tag is actually the first thing that caught my attention in the HTML
specification. Simply put, it guides the browsers rendering engine as to where the best place is
to make a word-break.  
Example:  
```html
<p>So then she pointed at the tiger and screamed
"thereisnowayyouareevergoingtocatchme"!</p>
```
In the case of a made up and extremely elongated word, we would like to sustain the little amount
meaning it has to the reader but avoiding this when there is not enough space to display it:
```html
thereisn
owayyou
areeverg
oingtoca
tchme!
```
Let us split this up with some `<wbr>` tags:
```html
<p>So then she pointed at the tiger and screamed
"there<wbr>is<wbr>no<wbr>way<wbr>you<wbr>are<wbr>ever<wbr>
going<wbr>to<wbr>catch<wbr>me"!
```
So now, when being broken apart this will render as:
```html
thereis
noway
youare
evergoing
tocatchme!
```