+++
title = "Linz: A city in review"
draft = true
+++

Just over a year ago I moved out of the (not so) United Kingdom, lived a short while with my grandparents in Poland, and moved into a shared flat in Linz, Austria. I decided to write this post to better document my feelings about the first of hopefully many cities I live in.

I want to start by saying that what you will read are my subjective thoughts and opinions, please take them with a good helping of non-iodized salt.

A little bit about Linz: it is the third-largest city in Austria, has a population of about 200,000 people, is home to the _tallest_ church in Austria, sits on the Danube (Donau) river, is the location of the Ars Electronica center and annual festival, and was home to Adolf Hitler during part of his youth.

Linz is an industrial town home to many different people, toured by the nearby Germans, and home to a large Turkish-speaking population. You cannot overlook the town's industrial nature, you will quickly notice the bare architecture, the noise, and the red glow on the clouds at night.

## Observations

Below I will detail both minor and major observations about Austria, some positive and some negative.

### Friendliness

In 2023 and 2022 Austria was voted one of the [unfriendliest countries in the world](//www.thelocal.at/20230711/austria-ranked-as-one-of-the-unfriendliest-countries-in-the-world) by the "Expat" (lots of issues with that word) community at [InterNations](//www.internations.org/). While the survey has flaws, and the community has a bias, if a mostly white, well-earning, male-identifying, and optimisitic population cannot feel at home in a country they clearly aren't throwing wonderful welcome parties.

Austria, in general, does not seem to have a welcoming culture.

### Socialising

As an adult that is working full-time, socialising is already difficult. This aspect of life is made universally more difficult by the fact that people who live in Austria have a hard time letting people in. There's been many times where I was introduced to a group of friends, by a common aquaintance, only for the entire group to proceed to ignore my attempts at conversation for the entire evening.
