+++
title = "This week I..."
+++

A terrible heat wave is slowly passing, which is really welcome as working efficiently in 45°C weather, and no air conditioning, is really difficult. Now we're back to _sub_ 40°C which might not seem like much but is a great deal more manageable. La Niña cannot come soon enough, I hope it cools us down enough.

# Tech

I started to wrap my head around columnar storage formats, like [Apache Parquet](//parquet.apache.org/). I also caught up on everything related to Typescript's 5.5 [release candidate](//devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-5-rc/). Finally I started to toy around with using Go as a go to back-end solution.

# Books

I started reading [A Random Walk Down Wall Street](//www.goodreads.com/book/show/40242274-a-random-walk-down-wall-street) by Burton Malkiel, in an effort to become more knowledgeable about the world of finance and investing.

# Articles

I spent a long time reading, understanding, and discussing the articles surrounding the introduction of Starlink-supported internet to the remote tribes in the Brazilian Amazon. [New York Times article](//www.nytimes.com/2024/06/02/world/americas/starlink-internet-elon-musk-brazil-amazon.html). [Misinformation](//www.nytimes.com/2024/06/11/world/americas/no-a-remote-amazon-tribe-did-not-get-addicted-to-porn.html) surrounding the tribes' habits aside, it underlined to me the importance of building software that can accommodate people from around the world.

I read about Italian [vie fittizie](//www.atlasobscura.com/articles/italian-streets-not-on-map), "fake" streets created to manage nomadic workers' rights to healthcare and government help. They are now commonly used to help homeless people access support services. If you want a task for yourself, create an English [wikipedia article](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Via_fittizia) for these.

# Other

- Maybe it's time to create a small mini-game, it has been a while since I delved into any game development.
- I should finish my new laptop's review